[Music]
Good afternoon everyone. This is the
regular board meeting of the trustees of
El Paso Community College District and
it is being held today, April the 30th
at 4:32.
This regular meeting will be held is
being held here in the administrative
service center located at 9050 by county
boulevard
uh board of trustees room
8200 El Paso, Texas 79925 and is
viewable through the EPCC YouTube
channel. Refer to the link
httpsw.youtube.com/user/goepcc
youtube.com/user/goepcc and I think we
have a quorum
right call the order yes Mrs. Robless
here Miss Maher here Mr. Mendes here Dr.
Grabb here Mr. Xer is running late and
Mr. Hagerty will not be here tonight
okay can we have
um Mr. Dr. Smith, lead us in the pledge,
please.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America, and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.
Thank you, sir.
Item 1.4, approval of minutes. This
includes December 4th, 2024 regular
board of trustees meeting minutes,
January 29th, 2025 regular board of
trustees meeting minutes, and February
25th, 2025 regular board of trustees
meeting minutes.
Do we hear a motion? Move to approve.
Second.
Call the question, please. Mrs. Robas,
I. Miss Naha, I. Mr. Mendes, I. Dr.
I except for the one that I missed which
was the
um February 25th.
Dr. Graham, if you're not approving the
last one, then it it fails for lack of a
we we only have four. So, all four of
you have to approve and it could be just
something that could be tabled for this
next meeting or we could revisit once
Mr. Ager comes back.
I think we can approve it.
Thank you, sir. Thank you.
Item 1.5, welcome to guests and staff
members. Item 1.6, open forum. There is
none, Dr. Graham. Section 1.7,
presentations by individuals, groups,
and organizations. Item 1.7.1 optional
presentations will be made by the
presidents of the classified staff
association, the professional staff
association, the faculty association,
and the student government association.
I guess Dr. She's going first.
Surprise is gone.
The surprise is coming.
Sorry. Good evening, members of the
board, President Serata, staff, and
guests. Uh my name is Laura Gaither, and
I'm president of classified staff. I am
here to discuss a matter that is not
only crucial for the well-being of our
employees, but also for the sustained
success and growth of our institution,
the need for a pay raise for our
dedicated workforce. First and foremost,
I want to acknowledge the incredible
efforts and resilience our employees
have demonstrated, especially over the
past few years. They have navigated
unprecedented challenges with unwavering
commitment and have consistently
delivered exceptional results. Their
hard work has been instrumental in
achieving our
strategic goals and maintaining the
mission of the El Paso Community
College. The cost of living has been
steadily increasing, impacting our
employees ability to maintain their
standard of living. By adjusting their
pay to reflect these changes, we can
ensure they are not only able to meet
their basic needs, but also thrive.
Competitive compensation is a key factor
in retaining top talent. Our employees
are our greatest asset and by investing
in them, we are investing in the future
of this institution.
A pay raise will boost morale, reduce
turn turnover, and foster a more engaged
and motivated
workforce. In a competitive job market,
offering attractive compensation
packages is essential to attract skilled
professionals. By pro providing a pay
raise, we position ourselves as an
employer of choice capable of drawing in
the best and brightest talent. not only
making making it a great place to start
for students but making it a great place
to start a career as well. When
employees feel valued and fairly
compensated, they are more likely to go
above and beyond in the roles. This
leads to increased productivity, higher
quality work, and greater innovation.
All of which contribute to our student
and college mission success. I
understand that financial considerations
are paramount. However, I believe that
the long-term benefits of a pay raise
far outweigh the initial costs. Our
suggestion for staff would be to get 6%.
As only getting 3% for a person making
$40,000 equals to them seeing about $80
in their paycheck, which doesn't cover a
trip to getting daily essentials at the
supermarket.
Additionally, the positive impact on
employee performance and retention will
ultimately lead to greater financial
returns for the institution. In
conclusion, providing a pay raise for
our employees is not just a gesture of
goodwill. It is a strategic investment
for APCC's future. Our employees have
shown us time and again that they are
backbone of our success. It is our
responsibility to ensure they are
compensated fairly for their hard work
and
dedication. Thank you for considering a
6% proposal. I am confident that
together you can make a decision that
will benefit both our employees and our
institution. Thank you for your time and
attention. Let's continue to build a
brighter future for our students and our
invaluable
employees. Thank you. Thank you.
I have a slideshow tonight.
EPCC and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good
Very Bad Bill known as
SB37 with thanks to Judith Fiorst for
those of you who remember that book way
back
when. From the Declaration of
Independence, the history of the
President, Lieutenant Governor, and
dominant political party of Texas is a
history of repeated injuries and
usurpations, all having in direct object
the establishment of an absolute tyranny
over Texas public colleges and
universities. To prove that to prove
this let facts be submitted to a candid
world. Thus I offer a comparison between
EPCC and
SP37. Comparison one EPCC faculty
association and faculty association and
faculty senate are established by and
operated by the EPCC faculty association
bylaws
SB37. The EPCC board of trustees will
establish a brand new faculty
association senate by adopting a policy
governing the selection of the faculty
councils or senate's members presumably
without faculty
input. Comparison two faculty members
elect one full-time and one adjunct
atlarge senator from each of the six
EPCC campuses and two full-time senators
from each academic division. Under SP37,
at large senators are eliminated and it
allows for two senators from each acade
academic division, one of whom is
elected by the division's faculty and
one of whom is appointed by the EPCC
president. Congratulations on your new
job
description. Comparison three, the
faculty association full-time vice
president.
uh it should be the faculty association
president, full-time vice president and
secretary are granted paid release hours
under SB37. Members of the faculty
council or senate are not entitled to
compensation or reimbursement of
expenses. Comparison four, the faculty
association officers and faculty
senators serve terms of two years and
are not subject to term limits. Under
SP37, faculty senators are appointed
faculty senators appointed by the EPCC
president may serve up to six
consecutive one-year terms and may only
be reappointed after a two-year absence.
Elected senators serve one two-year term
and can only be reelected after a
two-year absence.
Comparison four, the faculty associates
and executive committee consisting of
the president, full-time vice president,
adjunct vice president and secretary are
elected by the faculty for a term of two
years and can be reelected. Under SB37,
the EPCC president with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees shall
appoint a presiding officer, associate
presiding officer and secretary from the
members of the faculty council or
senate. an additional job for youine
people. Comparison six. Sometimes the
EPCC faculty associ association senate
passes resolutions that do not need
administrative consent such as approving
the minutes or the resolution passed
this academic year urging all faculty to
be courteous and aware of the 10-minute
time between classes. Under SP37, a
faculty council or senate is advisory
only and may not be delegated the final
decision-making authority on any matter.
Presumably, that means administration or
the trustees or both must approve
everything the association senate
passes, including the mundane
resolutions such as those stated above.
And we pass a bunch of those.
Why this ridiculous bill is being
advocated by the dominant political
party of Texas. All because Lieutenant
Governor Dan Patrick is throwing what I
call a hissy fit because the UT Austin
faculty senate had the audacity to pass
a resolution opposing something Patrick
was in favor of. Said political party
claims to be the defender of democracy
in America. Yet this bill is nothing
less nothing less than a blatant attempt
by that party and Patrick to destroy
democracy in Texas public colleges and
universities because they believe
without any proof whatsoever that quote
ludy Marxist professors are supposedly
indoctrinating students to hate America
and turn them into socialists and
communists. In fact, political party and
the lieutenant governor are attempting
to indoctrinate students to their own
far-right propagandistic
beliefs. To paraphrase the Declaration
of Independence, my favorite political
document, Lieutenant Governor Dan
Patrick and the dominant political party
of Texas have dissolved representative
houses repeatedly for opposing with
manly firmness their invasions on the
rights of the people. They have made
boards of trustees, you find people,
dependent on their will
alone. They have erected a multitude of
new offices and sent hither swarms of
officers to harass our people and eat
out their substance. Dang, bunch of
cannibals.
They've combined with others to subject
us to a jurisdiction foreign to our
constitution and unagnowledged by our
laws, giving their assent to their acts
of pretended
legislation. They have taken away our
bylaws, abolishing our most valuable
laws, altering fundamentally the forms
of our government. They have suspended
our own senates and declaring themselves
invested with power to legislate for us
in all cases whatsoever.
A lieutenant governor and dominant
political party whose character is thus
marked by every act which may define a
tyrant is unfit to be the ruler over
free
people. A resolution by the EPCC faculty
senate. Whereas Senate Bill 37 seeks to
totally dissolve and destroy the El Paso
Community College faculty senate.
Whereas SB37 proposes to totally
dissolve the EPCC faculty association
bylaws and replace them with bylaws
created by the EPCC board of trustees.
And whereas SB37 proposes severely
limited who can be on the faculty
senate. And whereas SB37 proposes to
have certain senators appointed by the
EPCC president instead of elected by the
faculty. And whereas SB37 proposes to
have the faculty associated exe
executive committee appointed by the
president and approved by the board of
trustees instead of elected by the
faculty. And whereas SP37 proposes that
senators appointed by the college
president are limited to six consecutive
one-year terms. And the faculty elected
senators are limited to one two-year
term and can only be reelected after the
second anniversary of the last day of
the member's most recent term. And
whereas SB37 proposes to destroy the
democratic way the EPCC faculty senate
has chosen and operates, the EPCC
faculty senate, duly assembled, does
hereby condemn and oppose this
undemocratic, vile, and repugnant SB37
as it is currently proposed. Done as
14th day of April in the year 2025,
revised on sec 22nd day of April in the
year 2025.
Under SP37, you, the members of the EP,
EPCC board of trustees, will have to
approve this very resolution. What will
you
do? Thank you. Oh, and by the
way, I was reelected president of the
Senate.
Congratulations. Congratulations. Thank
you. Thank you, sir. What are you going
to do about this?
Thank you again. Thanks, Dr. Burn.
Section 1.8, communications. Item
1.8.1, discussion and review regarding
data, statistics, policies, and general
information related to El Paso Community
College by the board of trustees.
Dr. Graham, members of the board, um I
would like to call on Dr. Dolores Grass,
our executive director of resource
development, uh, to present the latest
on the good work that our foundation has
done with regards to raising
scholarships for the students that we're
privileged to serve. Dr. Cross, please.
Thank you, Dr. Sarata. Good evening, uh,
Vice Chair Dr. Olivas Graham and board
of trustees, uh, college administrators,
faculty, and staff. It's a pleasure to
be here with you this evening and uh
give you some updates and recent
information about your El Paso Community
College
Foundation. I have with me here this
evening our board chair uh for this year
and I'd like to introduce him Mr. VJ
Smith of Ver Marathon Petroleum, a great
partner and funding partner of El Paso
Community College. VJ, would you like to
to come up and say hello?
[Applause]
Good afternoon, President and members of
the board of trustees. It's an honor to
be before you. And before uh Dr. Graass
gives this presentation, I just want to
convey how proud I am of Dr. Grass, her
staff, and our current um board for the
foundation. This is an amazing group of
professionals uh in business, industry,
and in the community. Um, they're
relentless about the vision and mission
of El Paso Community College and they're
relentless in terms of ways of raising
money and keeping our foundation um
dollar amounts high on average to
250,000 a year for scholarships and
student emergency aid. And um also want
to thank um Dr. Mo for her overarching
support as well. So, thank you. Thank
you, M. Thank you, sir.
Thank you, VJ. Um, I'd like to share
with you this evening, uh, some recent
updates. And as as VJ said, uh, the
mission, vision, um, and strategic goals
of El Paso Community College are the
mission and vision of your EPCC
Foundation. Uh, we are your affiliated
nonprofit foundation to raise funds for
El Paso Community College students and
to support EPCC programs. Uh we provide
scholarship funding to help EPCC
students achieve high value credentials
and partner with local companies like
Marathon Petroleum uh that VJ represents
and employers to provide funds and to
develop our region's skilled workforce.
We collaborate with faculty and staff
across the college to identify program
and student needs and to raise funds to
support students. Um, so to help
students stay on track, including their
emergency needs and investing in the
college foundation is an investment in
EPCC
students. I'd like to share with you our
uh foundation board officers for this
year. VJ Smith, as as I mentioned, chair
uh Vanessa Aguilad at Tanya Costan
Jabaro is our vice chair. Uh Thomas
Gabriel at Westar Bank is our treasurer
and Miriam Gueredo, the CFO of Workforce
Solutions Borderlex is our board
secretary. Um on our board this year we
have two new members. Miss Mariana
Benvidas of the Woody and Gail Hunt
Family Foundation and Dr. Andrea Tani
from Texas Tech El Paso who's a vice
president there. So you'll see our board
members and and uh they are all
advocates for El Paso Community College.
Many of them are also funders of EPCC
through their contributions for student
scholarships and our programs.
In the past 10 years, the foundation has
awarded almost 2,000 scholarships,
1,940 scholarships and over $2 million
to EPCC students. Uh I have here for you
some of our outcomes data and I'm
looking forward to working with Dr.
Penley staff at institutional research
uh because we track our students um each
semester and at the end of each academic
year to see how they're doing. So we
know that 68% of EPCC Foundation
scholarship awardees graduate in three
or fewer years and their average grade
point average is 3.43.
And uh so we're looking forward to more
graduates uh coming up in May and this
summer. And we know that so far the
board has projected to award
210,000 almost
$211,000 for scholarships to EPCC
students for the coming academic year
beginning in
fall. Here's some additional data for
you. So, in the past 10 years,
1,51 EPCC Foundation scholarship
awardees have graduated and last year
there were 165 graduates and again we're
looking forward to some in May and
perhaps some finishing in summer and
again we we follow them. We know who
they are. We know what majors they
achieved u their certificates and
degrees and uh we know exactly how many
transfer and go on to achieve additional
higher education
credentials. I wanted to mention the
star scholarship fund. These awards will
be coming up. This is with one of our
very active foundation partners. Um the
star scholarship fund founded by LNF
distributors. uh they have been our
foundation partner since
2014 and through that partnership more
than
$562,000 has been awarded to EPCC
students. The foundation matches that
funding dollar for dollar. So we have to
raise that money uh from the private
sector. And so that's really the benefit
of the UPCC Foundation. We're out
working with the private sector to raise
those funds to bring them to the
college. And so our match contribution
to date has been over
$281,000. And so we know that there are
76 students currently here at EPCC
awaiting good news uh to see if they
have been selected for a scholarship to
enroll for fall. And so that
announcement will be forthcoming soon.
And uh so those students by the way
that's a full tuition scholarship and
many of them do complete here go on to
transfer to universities and stars also
partners with UTEP. So we know that many
of them also then go on and receive
scholarships when they complete here and
transfer to UTEP.
McDonald's El Paso. Those awards are
coming up on the 20th of May. These are
for graduating high school seniors and
they've been a partner with the EPCC
Foundation since 2019. The unique part
about that partnership is that uh Mr.
Castro, Richard Castro, owner operator
of 26 McDonald's here in El Paso, uh
would not have kept this money local
unless he had some partners. So the EPCC
Foundation partnered with Mr. Castro
beginning in
2019. And so everything that McDonald's
awards, the EPCC Foundation matches. And
so that matching has resulted in
$227,000 for EPCC students. And you'll
see there that the college foundation
matched
$113,000 of that
funding.
Here's some good other good news for
you. And these are new funds that have
come in recently. Um the very end of the
year, kicking off um
2025. Uh but we have a number of donors
and you'll see the listing there. Uh
Barbara Walker from Cisco. And again,
that partnership Cisco match it matched
her
contribution. So that's almost a $20,000
contribution. We have the Northeast
Rotary Club Foundation, the Pan-American
Roundtable of El Paso. They started with
us last year and set up a $25,000
endowment fund. Uh this year they
contributed another $5,000 to their
fund. So that's a $30,000 plus fund for
El Paso Community College students. Uh
we have some other donors that are
fairly new with us. Mr. Gilbert Hendris,
he again awarded another $5,000 for
students uh without really any criteria
other than it go to anyCCCC to EPCC
students. Um Sentry Insurance, El Paso
Citizens Police Academy Alumni
Association, a scholarship was awarded
to a student about three weeks ago. uh
they have been a partner these past
several years and those were are
students in the EPCC law enforcement
training academy and uh so a variety of
new funds coming into the
college. Another newer partner, Nusenda
Credit Union here in El Paso, they
purchased Western Heritage Bank. um they
really are focused on education. And so
the foundation applied for funding
competitively and we were awarded
$15,000. And so we wrote this to support
dual credit students who want to come
into EPCC with scholarships because we
know there are a number of students,
many, many of them in the high schools
taking dual credit coursework that want
to come on over to EPCC and complete
their degrees here. And we want to we
wanted to make this an incentive for
them to enroll after graduation from
high school. So, this funding is
targeted for dual credit students in the
high schools coming over to El Paso
Community
College. Um, and save the date for 2025
fajitas and margaritas for scholarships.
Uh, this past year's event, we had 250
plus emphasis on the plus, guests, uh,
pretty much everybody that could fit
into the facility. 29 company sponsors
and again those sponsors are funders
bringing resources for EPCC students
into the college through this event. Uh
we had 29 of them this past year and our
highest fundraising proceeds to date.
We netted more than $87,000
uh that evening and uh so please save
the date and join us again. And we know
that Dr. Sedata, the board of trustees,
uh administrators, faculty, and staff
have been very supportive of this event.
Uh it's fun. Uh we partner with El Paso
Community College Culinary Arts and it's
a really great opportunity to showcase
EPCC students in action and uh we're
very proud to host this event on behalf
of the college and very proud to have
the trustees Dr. Sarata, our
administrators and faculty and staff
with us at this event. All for student
benefit and our sponsors
help every dollar raised at this
be proceeds for
students. And coming up next week, I
know many of you are attending. Ticket
sales closed this evening. They are
online. Uh but we have a a really
exciting event to raise scholarship
funding for El Paso Community College
nursing students. Uh this will establish
an endowment fund for EPCC nursing
students to help them get through
school. And we know that in tough
coursework for nursing in many cases it
is extremely difficult or if not
impossible for students to work outside
the college. um especially when they are
going through their clinical rotations,
they are required to be in clinical
sites in many cases in the hospitals and
so they really cannot work to earn money
for school. Uh this fund and this
fundraiser will help these students uh
with scholarship resources to uh
complete their degrees here at EPCC. And
so to share with you, we have some new
funding partners for this event. again
bringing in additional and new resources
into the college. Uh so these are our
funding partners and sponsors for this
lunchon on May 7th next week. Texas Tech
Health El Paso, Texas Tech School of
Nursing, El Paso Children's Hospital,
the Hospitals of Providence, UTEP
University Medical Center, U Grand
Canyon University, Project Ariba, and
Tender Care Home Health. All of these
educational institutions and healthc
care providers
um did sponsorships because they knew
this was an event to support student
scholarships. And many of our El Paso
Community College graduates that want to
go further in their education and
achieve the the bachelors of science in
nursing then transfer onward. Um so it's
an exciting event. We do have some
1974 graduates attending the event. A
couple of them came into uh my
foundation offices today and um they
were the first graduating class of EPCC
nursing. Um and so they're coming and uh
so that's next week, May 7th. Ticket
sales close at 11:00 p.m. tonight. Uh so
anyone in the audience that would like
to attend uh please join us. It's going
to be a nice festive celebratory lunch
all for El Paso Community College
student benefit. Uh we're very happy to
work and support and advocate for EPCC
students. That's our our role and our
mission is to help students succeed at
EPCC and achieve their degrees and
credentials and to work with our
workforce and private sector partners.
So, thank you so much. Thank you,
Dr. Gross. Thank you very much for all
the work that you do. It's um it's
refreshing to see that there is funding
available. There should be no excuse for
students not accessing the college and
uh getting their their degrees. But
thank you and the foundation for all the
work that you do. We appreciate it.
I don't know how you got drafted into
this, Mr. Smith.
But it was a good a good draft. Thank
you for serving.
Section 1.9, Board of Trustees Business.
Item 1.9.1, discussion and action to
approve the investment strategy from
Hilltop Securities Asset Management LLC
regarding the student success endowment
fund.
Move to approve.
We have a second.
Second.
Thank you. So, Mr. Uxer, I Mrs. Robless.
Hi, Miss Nahara. Hi, Mr. Mendes. Hi, Dr.
Graham. I, item 1.9.2 will be discussed
after executive session. Section 1.10,
board reports. Item 1.10.1, treasures
report, treasures reports. No action is
required. This includes item 1.10.1.1
March 31, 2025 financial statements.
Item 1.10.2 president's report. Item
1.10.2.1 Dr. William Serata College
President will update the board of
trustees and and audience on recent
events that have transpired at El Paso
Community College. Good evening, Dr.
Graham and members of the board. I'd
like to begin my report by expressing my
sincere gratitude to each of you for
your continued leadership, support, and
advocacy. On behalf of our students,
faculty, as well as our staff, your
unwavering dedication to our college's
mission of ensuring affordable,
highquality education and career
pathways from start to finish, it would
is what makes this community college a
place of opportunity, growth, and
transformation. We've had the
opportunity to celebrate the incredible
work we accomplished together, and none
of it would be possible without strong
leadership, as well as the commitment of
our faculty and staff.
I also want to extend my thanks to our
faculty and staff for their relentless
dedication to helping our students
achieve their dreams and ensuring the
college remains a beacon of opportunity
and excellence. Whether in the
classroom, behind the scenes, or in
support of our academic and student
services, each of you plays a crucial
role in shaping the future of those we
serve. Your impact on our students, our
community, and each other is sincere,
and it does not go unnotice. Thank you
for all that you do and happy community
college
month. As part of the college's
community college month celebration, a
special brunch was held honoring our
retirees. Nearly 110 former employees
attended the event which served as a
heartfelt thank you to those who helped
build the foundation of the college. I
would like to thank Dr. Graham and Mrs.
Robas for joining us. Having you there
meant a lot to the retirees and showed
how much we value the legacy they helped
build. I'd also like to thank Dr. Carrie
Mo, associate vice president of external
relations, communication and development
and miss anelica, special projects
coordinator for their outstanding work
in organizing this event and ensuring
that it was a success. I'm pleased to
report that the college has been
officially redesated as a national
center of academic excellence in cyber
defense for the 2024 through the 2029
cycle. This recognition was given during
the 2025 CAE in cyber security in the
cyber security community symposium which
took place from April 8th through the
10th in South Carolina. A special thank
you to Dr. Misha Pagel and Dr. Christian
Sevine who represented the college at
the symposium and ceremony. The college
was one of only 32 institutions
nationwide to receive a new designate
designation or to be
redesated during this year's event. This
accomplishment highlights EPCC's
continued commitment to excellence in
the fields of cyber security and
artificial intelligence education and
training. Thank you to all those
involved in this recognition. I'm
pleased to inform you that the college
has earned the prestigious 2025 2026
silver military friendly school
designation by victory. And you also see
um that uh Mr. Dwire handed out the
202526 guide to military friendly
schools. Uh since its inception in 2003,
the military friendly schools list has
been the benchmark for higher education
institutions that offer outstanding
opportunities for veterans and their
families. EPCC proudly serves over 3,000
service members, veterans, and their
families, continually striving to
provide the most effective support for
these students in achieving their
educational goals. EPCC partners with
Fort Bliss to offer in-person services
in admissions, counseling, and advising,
and offers evening 8week general
education courses on base. EPCC is
committed to being the institution where
veterans go to succeed. The
military-friendly schools designation is
awarded based on a rigorous evaluation
of an institution's performance in areas
such as retention,
graduation, job placement, and support
for student veterans. More than 1,800
schools participated in the survey, and
we are honored to be part of this
respected network. Thank you for your
continued support of our efforts to
serve those who have served our country
so well. Dr. Joshua Heit, associate
professor of history, recently marked
the 26th anniversary of the Coline High
School tragedy by sharing his personal
experience as a survivor. In a series of
discussions titled A Survivor Story, Dr.
He spoke with students and the community
about the day of the tragedy, its
historical context, and the long-term
effects of surviving such an event. The
first session was held on April 16th at
the Viveeta campus and another on April
23rd at the Northwest campus as part of
the EPCC history department lecture
series. He emphasized the importance of
focusing on the community's resilience
rather than the perpetrators,
acknowledging the complex and often
unanswerable questions surrounding the
event. Dr. Heert, a senior at Coline
during the shooting, was fortunate to be
in a different part of the school when
the tragedy occurred. He reflected on
the lasting impact of those harrowing
moments and how they shaped his views on
issues such as school safety as well as
gun control, drawing parallels to other
tragedies, including the 2019 El Paso
tragedy. The discussions were
particularly meaningful for students
like Iette Rodriguez, a
multid-disiplinary studies major, who
expressed interest in the mental health
challenges faced by survivors and the
long-term care they receive. We're proud
to have Dr. he at EPCC where his unique
perspective as both a survivor and
historian enriches our community's
understanding of these critical issues.
I'm excited to share that EPCC sign
language interpreter Christina Diaz was
a featured speaker at this year's TEDex
so roots 2025 event. The theme of this
year's TEDex is roots focusing on
identity, heritage, growth, and the
foundations that shape us with a special
emphasis on local perspectives from
native Sakoro res residents. Christina,
an El Paso native and proud first
generation college graduate will present
on an article she wrote for the National
Deaf Journal in 2020. With over 35 years
of experience in education, her work
focuses on special education and the
deaf community. She currently serves as
a lab assistant in EPCC's sign language
program and holds degrees in sign
language interpreting, psychology, and
multidisciplinary studies among various
certifications. The TEDex event took
place on Saturday, April 26th at the
Moonlight Adobe Hall in Sakuro, Texas.
The event featured thought-provoking
talks, local food, and craft beer from
the mission's brewery. Christina's
participation in this prestig
prestigious event is a testament to her
dedication to both her field as well as
her community. I'm proud to announce
that EPCC librarian Anna Lizzie Ooa has
been selected as a 2025 Woody and Gail
Hunt Aspen Fellow. Lizzie will attend
the Aspen Institute Summer Words
Festival for writers from June 22nd
through the 27th in of of this year in
Snow Mass Village, Colorado. This
prestigious event is one of the nation's
top literary gatherings offering
workshops and creative development for
emerging and established writers. She is
working on several children's books and
a short story to script project. She
will participate in the book branding
workshop led by Taran Rotor, executive
director of publicity at Abrams Books.
Lizzie looks forward to sharing her
unique perspective from the Border Plex
region and engaging with a diverse group
of writers in this transformative
experience. The Hunt Aspen Fellowship is
designed to elevate voices from the
Borderlex, El Paso, Sid Wuades, and Las
Cusus through leadership seminars and
networking opportunities. Her
participation will further strengthen
the region's dynamic bational community.
EPCC's professional development program
held its second annual ACU pinning
ceremony at the administrative services
center. The event focused on effective
online teaching practices and honored 25
faculty members who received the ACU pin
of completion and certification and
effective teaching practices. This
national recognition highlights their
commitment to excellence in education.
The faculty participate in a fourcourse
professional development program
facilitated by the association of
college and university e educators or
ACUE which involved collaboration with
colleagues nationwide to implement
evidence-based teaching strategies. The
graduates were awarded a pin, a
certificate of completion, and a medal
to wear at commencement marking their
achievement in advancing the
instructional skills their instructional
skills. Congrats to the ACU graduates.
To wrap up community college month, we
had an EPCC night at the ballpark. Thank
you. Uh thank you all for joining us on
Saturday, April 26th at the ballpark. A
huge thank you to our great team uh from
the president's office for their
coordination and effort in making EPCC
Night at the Ballpark a success. The the
evening was filled with school spirit,
community connection, as well as
unforgettable moments. Our APCC TV
studio put together a short video of the
of the new Tahano music studio at the VA
uh campus and of EPCC's Night at the
Ballpark and it is coming up now and we
have the new Tahano Sun studio that we
have here and we're very very proud. We
just actually started and launched three
new programs for the music department.
Uh we are currently offering an
associates of arts and science in audio
engineering, associates of arts and
music business and then a certificate of
completion in music technology which is
a one-year track. We set off developing
two tracks, one for audio engineering
and one for music business. We just need
to make this happen cuz they're going to
come. They're going to sign up for it.
And sure enough, as soon as we open it
up, they're basically all my sections
are full. Have a recording studio here
at EPC Studio and put it together. So we
got all the paperwork. We did the course
development. They're going to learn how
to uh record um learn about live sound,
acoustics, MIDI, um and as well as a
music business and what it takes to run
uh a business in recording and if they
want to promote themselves. It's such a
it's such a privilege, right? And of
course, uh it would be ideal for for
college to just be accessible for all,
right? But we know that EPCC is a much
more um accessible path here. So, the
fact that we just started right off the
bat, not only learning so much about the
fundamentals of sound, um, how it's
created, how it's recorded, how it's
captured, but then getting immediate
access to this facility to be able to
practice those skills immediately. Um,
that that has been the biggest thrill.
And of course, beyond that, it's also
the the feeling of of collaboration. And
they all went and wrote their own song
and they're producing it completely.
been teaching audio engineering, but we
want to immerse students and give them
more knowledge within the music
industry, teach the business of music.
Uh Dan and I, Dan Becker and I, we went
to LA to the NAM show, the National
Association of Music Merchant Show to
find out about all this good equipment
of recording and made our list and
everything and gathered all our
information and put it together in our
proposal and uh it got approved. It got
approved, you know, by the board and
everything because this is something
that we found out that teenagers in high
school when they come out, they love
music and they want to record music.
They want to dive themselves into music
and it goes to show we have a waiting
list here. In here is our studio. This
is where we are going to be recording
and um it is completely soundproof. Um
our faculty member Glenn Leeler is uh
one of the gentlemen who helped with the
building of the room. I built Star City.
I built the A- Room of Sonic Ranch. I've
been doing it a long time. Eventually,
the name just kind of uh it just made
sense. And it's just it's it's it's a
big honor, especially cuz for me, I I
specifically went into this um to feel
empowered to to uh know exactly how to
produce music. That's always been a
dream. I've always been on the stage for
years, but I have always wanted to know
how to get behind the scenes. So, if
you're interested in our program, please
give me a call. Again, my name is Dr.
Melissa Gurola. You can find me at um
music.epcc.edu. My phone number is
915831-2875. And you can also email me.
My email is
mgurr1
epcc.edu. We hope to see you here. I'm
excited for it as you could tell. And
the students, they're already busy
recording stuff.
All
right. Night of football.
[Applause]
[Music]
First
up, please welcome
[Applause]
[Music]
Dr. Graham, members of the board, that
concludes my report. Thank you. That was
great,
Dr. Graham. I do I do have one question.
Dr. Shrod brought up this uh the
standing of the community college and
the military friendly school and um as
you point out we're designated as silver
whereas they have gold as the top. Now
given the facilities that we have and
given the administration and the
leadership that we have I find it hard
to believe that I I guess I'd like to
know what the standards they use to do
that because maybe there's something out
for us to learn. But I thought I thought
what we provided was you know what what
you so obviously there's there's some
area of con uh that that other people
judge
uh that might be beneficial for us to
look at but otherwise I I don't see how
anybody could top I mean you look at the
new facilities they provide at Trans
Mountain and VIA the leadership that we
have here and and with that the veterans
we have the supporting the
field particularly if we're competing
against Dallas and they don't have any
kind of army there.
Mr. Usher, I certainly appreciate the um
competitive spirit of of your question.
We will certainly work with Mr. Dwire um
and look at um at the additional
possibilities of services that we could
offer to our veterans to try and see.
We've been we've been ranked silver for
quite some time uh to look to see what
it would take to to reach gold status.
And then obviously we'd love to be one
of the top institutions um that they
uh that that they mention in the
magazine. Let let me point out I'm I'm
not seeking for gold status because it's
gold. Understood. You know, if they have
some area they think's important, but it
doesn't fit our needs here. I wouldn't
worry about it. But I don't I don't
really see anything that we're short,
Command Sergeant Major will take care of
that.
Yes, sir. Maybe Mr. go and have some
insight as to what it takes. Okay.
Any other comments, questions?
Item 1.11, consent docket. There is
none. Section two,
administration. Item 2.1,
BBFDA, FFDB, FFE, FL, legal revised
TASBY policies for first reading and
approval.
Okay. So, that was enough to put you to
sleep for several nights.
Do we have a motion? Move to approve.
Second.
Any concerns, questions? Just out of
curiosity, can she say the policies as
posted instead of having to go through
the alphabet 14 times?
I don't know. That's a question for
legal. Yes, you could do so. There you
go.
Excellent.
Mr. Exer, I Mrs. Robless. Hi, Miss Naha.
Hi, Mr. Mendes. Hi, Dr. Graham. I Item
2.2, 36, legal TASBY policies for review
and comment
only. No action is
required. Section three, personnel. Item
3.1, information items. institutionally
externally funded full-time staff
faculty appointments, extensions,
resignations, and retirements. No action
is required. Item 3.2, tenure track
faculty appointments and new tenur
faculty. Okay, this one does require
action. Do we have a motion?
Move to approve.
We need a second. Second. Any
discussion?
No problem.
Mr. Exer, I Mrs. Robless. I Miss Naha.
Hi, Mr. Mendes. Hi, Dr. Graham. I
section four, financial services. Item
4.1, discussion and action on the
authorization to enter into an
interlocal agreement with 1G one
government procurement alliance 1GPA a
nonprofit sourcing purchasing
cooperative move to approve second
any
discussion question Mr. Xter I Mrs.
Robless I Miss Nah Mr. Mendes hi Dr.
program. I
section five, physical
facilities. Item 5.1, discussion and
action on the approval to increase
expenditures with action target, Inc. to
upgrade EPCC's law enforcement academy
firing range at the Mission Del Paso
campus in an additional amount of
$147,950 to previously approved
$478,137.
Move to approve. Is that good? Any
discussion? I have a question. Yes, sir.
Um I I'm just curious
what what is involved in a the firing
range that makes it deficient? I mean,
what what do we need to do to uh improve
it? If are are we increasing the
capacity of the weaponry? Are we
increasing the ability? Is it just
natural wear and tear? Uh is it
degrading? I mean, I'm not questioning
the money. I'm just questioning uh what
what's the state of the facility and
what's the state-of-the-art?
I'll I'll ask Dr. Smith to to to weigh
in. Mr. Um Mr. Doctor, thank you for the
question. The the law enforcement
training academy is uh a little
shopworn. Uh it's been in existence for
uh almost 30 years. Um it is a situation
where the shooting range itself, the
targeting system um that was originally
installed is no longer going to be
maintained and uh needs to be repaired.
So we're looking at uh redoing that
entire targeting system. As we were
looking at that, we also determined that
the traps that capture the bullets that
go down the range uh have begun
cracking. And that's what you're seeing
on the agenda tonight is um replacing
those bullet traps that are behind each
one of the ranges. It's not a situation
where we're expanding the capacity. It's
just we're bringing it up to to
standards for current law enforcement.
Okay. I don't and the next question I
want take is criticism but wonder when
you go through the budgetary and
reviewing and and the maintenance
policies that you're looking at how come
all of a sudden you know now we see that
everything is worn and torn. I mean, and
and so you anticipate a three-year
planning and and maintenance
program and all of a sudden what we did
was roughly a third. I mean, deficient
by about a third. I mean, was was
weren't we paying attention to the
facilities earlier and it sort of except
it was functional and the sandbags are
stopping the bullets and so everything's
okay.
Um it wasn't a situation where it
happened all at once for the targeting
system. When we were informed by the
company that um manufactured that that
they were no longer going to support it.
Obviously that was uh something that got
our attention. Uh we did stock up on
some uh supplies to repair that facility
for a number of uh years. Um the bullet
traps, there are two cracked bullet
traps uh out of the I want to say 20ish
um shooting ranges that we have. So
we're being proactive. Uh and upon
inspection, the other uh bullet traps
are indeed uh becoming shopworn. Um and
does that allow the bullet to go
downrange? Do we have to worry about the
uh Ask me that again. Does that if
they're cracked, does that mean the
bullet can go downrange? There there's
no evidence that any bullets are
escaping the track at the traps at this
point. Just extra sandbags all do it.
Excuse me. Thank you for the explanation
that was on point on page 475. It was
pretty good. I have received compliments
from a reliable source. My brother who
goes there and he likes the the range
quite a bit. He complimented the work
that was done there. So, I'm glad we're
improving it. Any other comments,
discussion?
Mr. Exter I, Mrs. Robas, I. Miss Naha,
I. Mr. Menddees, hi. Dr. Graham, I. Item
5.2, Two, discussion and action on
approval to increase the maximum
contract award amount for three
previously awarded vendors and one
additional vendor for the purchase of
building materials, supplies, and/or
services for the remainder of the fiscal
year 202425.
Doc Dr. Graham, on this last item, if
the board is inclined to approve this, I
would just kindly uh recommend to the
board to identify those four vendors.
They're not included in the in the
agenda and I think just for the sake of
transparency and openness if we could
identify them. You'll find them on page
476 of your
packet. Okay. So we have uh Basil Glaze.
Is that the ones you're talking about
sir? Yes ma'am. Huh? Basil Glass
Incorporated and that is uh at 1460
Common Drive, El Paso, Texas. And um
True Tech Air Conditioning and
Refrigeration located on 8755 Robert
Drive, El Paso, Texas. Sheet Metal Air
Plus Company of
LLC 416 Johnson Avenue, El Paso, Texas,
and Prime Pump Service LLC
11610 Ernest Road, El Paso, Texas.
Thank you, Dr. Any
questions,
concerns? So, move to approve 5.2 two of
with the vendors that Dr. Graham just
mentioned.
Do we have a second? Second.
Any discussion?
Question. Mr. Exer. I. Mrs. Robas. I.
Miss Naha. I. Mr. Mendes. I. Dr. Graham.
I. Section six, curriculum and
instruction. Item 6.1, discussion and
action on the approval of a cooperation
contract agreement from the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board in the
amount of $300,000. Move to approve.
Very good.
Discussion.
Did you want to tell us a little bit
more about that, Dr. Smith? Um, if I go
too long, stop me. This is something
that gets me pretty excited. Um, it is
exciting. So under the last legislative
session, not this one, uh of course we
know House Bill 8 was passed, which uh
generally is considered the funding bill
for community colleges, but embedded in
that bill was also the creation of the
opportunity high school diploma program.
Uh and so uh last year we brought to the
board a $100,000 grant as a planning
year uh for the uh grant itself to
develop the uh structure for the
opportunity high school diploma program.
Uh this money is being used to actually
uh develop and implement it. So we're
one of five colleges in the state of
Texas that has the ability to uh
actually offer the program. So faculty
at the institution now are actually in
the process of developing the high
school curriculum uh the placement uh
examinations and training uh counselors
and advisers to do the placement uh for
the high school part of the program
which will be completely competencybased
uh in nature. And so we anticipate
enrolling our first cohort of students
into this program in the fall. Do you
anticipate a location where they're
going to be clustered or are they just
going to be in different campuses? Uh
they'll be all over the the city. We
didn't want to make them drive to one
particular campus. Uh being competency
based, we'll have the ability to do this
at multiple locations.
And was there any ever any discussion of
considering younger ones? I looked
through it all to see if by any chance
we we could uh kind of pick up some of
those kiddos that have dropped out at an
earlier age, but it doesn't appear that
I found any information that would
support that because we have so many
young people that are not able to
access regular um programs and they
won't go back to the high schools.
They're
16, 17, but
yeah, I don't know. Dr. Sha, you want to
um tackle this one? We we don't want to
compete with uh high school recovery
programs that some of the districts have
now. We don't and and this legislation
was specifically for 18 and over. Um I
know that the districts can receive
state funding up to the age of 26. Um
but this this is for students who have
already reached an age where they
theoretically would have graduated from
high school. So, we're only allowed to
take the adult. We're not allowed to um
deal with students that are under 18.
And do we have an idea of how many we
might initiated with? So, we had uh
contracted or been approached uh by a
number of entities that have done some
analysis uh in our region. We're looking
at in the nature of 30,000 potential
students that have uh not completed high
school but are in the workforce
somewhere. in that age group. Now that's
a huge number. Yeah. Part of this uh
funding uh will be for marketing and
outreach uh so that we can reach the
desired population. As you can imagine
uh this particular population is one of
the more difficult ones to reach.
And some of the hurdles that uh are
going to be there were probably going to
be some of the ones that dropped out
because they couldn't pass some of the
state assessments and they just gave up.
So the criteria to uh you know have them
enter the the program are they looking
at any of that or how is that going to
be? Yeah, the criteria are pretty easy.
Any student who uh did not complete high
school and is of the appropriate age and
interested in earning a college
credential is eligible for the program
regardless of how they dropped out or
correct. And as you can imagine, you
know, there could be somebody that
dropped out as a senior one semester
from graduating high school and others
that may have dropped out as soon as
they entered high school. Uh, so there
will be pathways and placements and and
supports for all those populations
and I guess we're going to carefully
recruit the staff that are going to
serve them because that's going to be a
huge differences to we have a number of
faculty that are really excited to serve
this population already. We've also uh
asked our teacher prep uh faculty uh to
help vet the high school curriculum and
lies with our ISD partners to make sure
that the diploma that we're offering uh
is um appropriate and on par with what
the ISDs are offering.
Well, it's great news for our community.
Thank you. Absolutely. Thank everybody
that worked on or is working on this.
Any other comments?
Mr. Exer. Hi. Mrs. Robless. Hi. Miss
Nahara. Hi. Mr. Mendes. Hi. Dr. Graham.
I. Section seven, student services.
There is none. Section eight, community
services. There is none. Would the board
like to go into executive session? Yes.
Item 1.3, executive and close session.
The board of trustees may conduct an
executive or close session pursuant to
chapter 551 of the Texas government code
for one or more of the following
reasons. One, consultation with its
attorney to seek or receive legal advice
or consultation regarding pending or
contemplated litigation or for any
purpose authorized by law. Two,
discussion about the value or transfer
of real property. Three, discussion
about a prospective gift or donation.
Four, consideration of specific
personnel matters. Five, discussion
about security, personnel or devices. Or
six, discussion of certain economic
development matters. The board may also
announce that it will go into executive
session on any item listed on this
agenda if the subject matter is
permitted for a close session by
provisions of chapter 551 of the Texas
Government Code. Any vote regarding
these items shall be taken in open
session. Item 1.3.1 discussion with
legal council regarding
negotiation of ground lease agreement
for EPCC Northwest campus with Gano Theo
ISD pursuant to section
551.072 of the Texas government code.
Item
1.3.2 discussion with legal counsel
regarding proposed board resolution for
the student success endowment fund
pursuant to section
551.073 of the Texas government code.
The time is now 5:35 p.m. and the board
is in executive session.
Okay, we are back from executive session
and it is
6:37. Item 1.9.2 discussion and action
to approve revisions to board resolution
for the student success endowment fund.
No
action. We have
No.
Thank you.
Uh, I'd remind the board that Friday,
May 2nd, at 6 o'clock at the El Paso
Country Club, we're having the employee
recognition
dinner. So, this Friday, which is also,
by the way, Judge Hagert's birthday, who
is not here, was unable to make it
today. And Dr. Graham, our next board
meeting is scheduled for May the 28th
at 4:30 here in the boardroom.
And with that, do we have any other
business? No. Okay, that concludes our
meeting for today. Thank you all for
being in attendance.
Thank you so much. Thank you, Mr.
Ortega. Thank you.
[Music]